Hello! This file will tell you all about how to work through our algorithm validation.

Currently, this project uses the k-means++ algorithm to group, or cluster, the schools.
You can see this algorithm in action in a number of different files. The data used in our
validation is generated by kMeansTesting2.ts, which takes in the coordinates of every school
in Indiana and produces 20 clusters and centroids. We stored these arrays in a .txt file
called *NAME*. We also tested the algorithm on a specific classification and sport. This 
experiment can be seen in the file *NAME* and produces output in a txt file *NAME*.

There were multiple ways we validated that the k-means++ algorithm is suitable for use in this
project. This validation can be found in the file ClusteringDemo.ipynb, which is a Jupyter
Notebook. To run this file, you will need to install some programs, packages, and dependencies.
First, you will want to install the latest version of Python 3, probably Python 3.8. Then, you'll
need to install the latest version of Anaconda. Once you've done that, you'll need to install the 
following packages in Python:

It is probably best to do this using "conda install" rather than "pip install," and there are plenty
of resources on the internet that will help you if you run into problems. The most difficult package
to install will be geopandas due to the number of dependencies (you'll also need to install some wheels)
but again, the internet can walk you through this. Once you have everything installed, open an 
Anaconda window, navigate to the directory containing ClusteringDemo.ipynb, and type "jupyter notebook".
This should open a tab in your browser, and you should see the file ClusteringDemo.ipynb. Then, you
can run each block using shift+ENTER. 

You'll likely run into some issues early in the file, because you'll be missing the Indiana shape
file! This is because this file is quite large, and I was unable to push it to the git hub because
of this. But, you can find it here: LINK

Download it and save it in a folder named indianaShapeFile in the same directory as ClusteringDemo.ipynb.

Now, for the actual validation. The first part is purely visual. We take the schools (all of them or a 
subset of them) and cluster them. Then, we throw those clusters on a map of Indiana and see if we like
them. That's it.

The second part, which I've hopefully finished by the time you're reading this, computes the intra-cluster
distances. Coupled with the visual, this should give you enough information to determine whether the
k-means++ algorithm is sufficient. 

If you decide that k-means++ is *not* sufficient, my recommendation is to try a method called graph 
spectral clustering. This will take a bit to understand, but the basic idea is that it treats each
school as a node on a graph where distances are edge weights and uses the spectral properties of the
graph to reduce the dimension of the data. Then, an algorithm like k-means++ takes over and finishes
the clustering. There is a lot of math (specifically linear algebra) involved in this method, and the 
handbook on this technique can be found here:  *LINK TO VON LUXBURG*

That's it for now. Good luck!